once again this is the scene in Gaza I
said earlier you'd be forgiven for
thinking that what you're seeing in the
sky lighting up is a thunderstorm a
lightning storm I've since been told
there is actually a lightning storm
going on over Gaza those are the white
flashes of light you can see we're also
seeing a huge number of red orange
flashes on that night sky as of course
Israel pounds the Gaza Strip and
continues to do so throughout the night
we're also seeing these pictures down
there on your screen of the northern
Israeli border with Lebanon huge fires
there we can now speak to our
correspondent Ali hasham he is in
southern Lebanon and is near where this
is happening Ally you're on the phone at
the moment to us tell us if you can as
far as you know what's going on
there well since uh this uh afternoon is
really planes uh uh have been uh raiding
the Open Spaces especially after a group
from the Islamic Jihad the Palestinian
Islamic Jad infiltrated the the the
borders and crossed to an Israeli
settlement where they engaged in a in a
fight with in in a battle with the
Israeli Army two of Islamic Jihad
Fighters were killed and several Z army
soldiers according to islami Jihad uh
statement were IND what we what we are
seeing right now is these fires these
huge fires isra planes are raing these
Open Spaces to uh burn the grass the
trees whatever is possible for fighters
to hide and to infiltrate through um
because they to prevent them from doing
similar uh things tomorrow I mean at any
time because from since yesterday
escalation
has been clear in on the the northern
borders of Israel and given the the
situation today it seems that this this
tension is is going to continue
escalating over the coming days and uh
given the situation in Gaza and Ali just
explain to us the significance of
Islamic Jihad because of course we've
been hearing a lot about Hezbollah and
Hezbollah there on the border this is a
Hezbollah controlled area hearing about
Hamas in Gaza how does Islamic Jihad fit
into all of
this well the Palestinian Islamic Jihad
is um active in in Gaza however there
are very strong allies ofah and Hamas to
so um over the past few years the
Islamic Jihad started having their own
also infrastructure in Lebanon however
it's under under's supervision the same
goes for for Hamas here they've not
really uh engaged in military operations
um except for a few occasions so you go
back in the past years there was an
occasion when a group from the Islamic
Jihad infiltrated the the the the
borders went to a a settlement called
aine and that was a few years ago so
this year seems the situation especially
with the with the War uh raging in in
Gaza it seems Islamic Jihad are active
once again On the Border um we are also
anticipating whether Hamas is going to
be active especially a few months ago
there were tens of missiles short range
rockets that were launched from the
Lebanese territories towards Israel and
Hamas was responsible for that so we are
seeing the Palestinian factions
returning to the borders between Lebanon
and and Israel and this is this hasn't
been the case for um for for around 40
years the last time Palestinian faction
were active on the borders between
Lebanon and Israel was in
1982 following an Israeli invasion in
1982 the PLO Palestinian Liberation
Organization were forced to leave
Lebanon and since then it was more
Lebanese factions fighting on the
borders especially that Lebanese
territories were occupied by Israel so
this is this is new this is
significant Ali we just saying more
close close-up pictures of these fires
they look to be extending a long way
along this border region can you tell us
a little bit more about them what you
know about them which side of the Border
they're on and just tell us once again
how you think they might have been
started you know this these border this
border is is kind of uh uh intertwined
no way or another so um these lands uh
are agricultural land that also Open
Spaces uh and it seems over the past
hours is really are more suspicious of
uh additional infiltrations taking place
from that area and U the time we were
there uh
today the sound of of airplane isra
airplanes Jones was very and um over the
past couple of hours the were several
rids there now putting aside this issue
there were also Rats on on houses in in
the village of Yin
and these are also uh U border Villages
and U it's also important to to mention
that today just a few minutes ago hisbah
issued a statement saying that one of
its Fighters was killed in Israel Aid
and this is this is kind of a a real
escalation here because hasah um over
over the past years we we know that they
always vow to revenge for the fighters
who are being killed who are killed by
Israel so this would mean that hasah is
going to launch another attack and
becoming our well that's interesting
Ally because we've just got word in now
that Israel has said it was targeting
Hezbollah positions in southern
Lebanon well this is what happened to
today this is what happened today in the
the the town of
of there was a tower um that used for um
observation from there this Tower was
hit there was also another Post in that
was hit by Israeli forces what we know
now according to statement that that
there's
one who lost his life today so yes this
is this is taking a new dimension and uh
the Lebanese uh border is is getting
into this conflict step by step it's not
it's not a situation of War but it's
neither a situation of Peace anymore and
that's what making people very concerned
here okay Ali hasham thanks very much
indeed for bringing us the very latest
there on the Lebanon Israel border for
filling Us in on those fires that we've
been seeing all along the border region
there